Doc upgrade guide (#6231)
cyberbotics/webots: docs/guide/from-2023a-to-2023b.md

# Upgrade from R2023a to R2023b
The R2023b version of Webots introduces a new type of node: the [Pose](../reference/pose.md) node.
It has been introduced to solve an issue regarding scale: until R2023b, solid, robots and devices had a scale parameter.

> However scaling such nodes was the cause of a lot of bugs and inconsistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, scaling such nodes was the cause of a lot of bugs and inconsistency.
```

> However, scaling such nodes was the cause of a lot of bugs and inconsistency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, scaling such nodes was the cause of a lot of bugs and inconsistencies.
```

> Moreover, in a lot of cases, it did not make sense to scale such node: you could scale down a car but motor's power where not scaled for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, in a lot of cases, it did not make sense to scale such node: you could scale down a car but motor's power where not scaled, for example.
```

> Moreover, in a lot of cases, it did not make sense to scale such node: you could scale down a car but motor's power where not scaled, for example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moreover, in a lot of cases, it did not make sense to scale such nodes: you could scale down a car but motor's power was not scaled down, for example.
```

> This is where the Pose node comes in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Pose node resolves all these problems.
```

## What Changes
### What Is the Pose Node

> The Pose node is a descendant of [Group](../reference/group.md) and replace [Transform](../reference/transform.md) as the parent of [Solid](../reference/solid.md) and [Fluid](../reference/fluid.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pose node is a descendant of [Group](../reference/group.md) and replaces [Transform](../reference/transform.md) as the base node of [Solid](../reference/solid.md) and [Fluid](../reference/fluid.md).
```

> It has exactly the same fields than a transform but for the `scale`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has exactly the same fields than a [Transform](../reference/transform.md) but for the `scale`.
```

> It has exactly the same fields than a [Transform](../reference/transform.md) but for the `scale`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It has exactly the same fields as a [Transform](../reference/transform.md) except the `scale`.
```

You can see the complete node hierarchy [here](../reference/node-chart.md).

> ### What Becomes of the Transform Node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### What is Now the Usefulness of the Transform Node?
```

> The Transform node is still there and can be used to scale `Geometry`.

Reviewer: I would use geometries given that it is not only the Geometry node that is scaled.
And I would add `visual`, given that the bounding object geometries cannot be scaled.
```suggestion
The Transform node is still there and can be used to scale visual geometries.
```

*Note*: a Transform node cannot be inserted in a `bounding object` and cannot contain any `Solid` nodes.

> ## Adapt Your Projects
> ### How to Adapt Your Worlds

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to Adapt Your Projects
### World Files
```

A backward compatibility mechanism has been implemented to automatically convert old worlds during loading.
It works as follows:
  - For each `Transform`, it checks whether or not the scale has the default value: `1 1 1`.

>   - If it is the case, it creates a `Pose` instead of a `Transform`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - If it is the case, it replaces the `Transform` with a `Pose`.
```

> Saving the world will save the conversion to the world file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Saving the world will save the converted world file.
```

In several cases, you will need to fix the world by yourself:

>   - If a non default scale is in a `Solid` node or a node derived from `Solid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If a non default scale is used by a `Solid` node or a node derived from `Solid`.
```

>   - A non default `scale` is present in a `Transform` that is in a forbidden place like a `bounding object` or that have `Solid` children.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - If a non default `scale` is present in a `Transform` that is in a forbidden place like a `bounding object` or that have `Solid` children.
```

> ### How to Adapt Your Protos

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### PROTO files
```

> The backward compatibility mechanism also works for protos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The backward compatibility mechanism also works for PROTOs.
```

> However, saving the world will have no effect on the protos, which means that they will be converted at every loading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, saving the world will have no effect on the PROTOs, which means that they will be converted at every loading.
```

> However, saving the world will have no effect on the PROTOs, which means that they will be converted at every loading.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, saving the world will have no effect on the PROTOs, which means that they will be converted every time the world is loaded.
```

> To fix that, you can either convert them by hand or use the [convert\_transform\_to\_pose.py](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cyberbotics/webots/master/scripts/converter/convert_transform_to_pose.py).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix that, you can either convert them by hand or use the [convert\_transform\_to\_pose.py](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cyberbotics/webots/master/scripts/converter/convert_transform_to_pose.py) script.
```

> *Note*: the script has several limitations:

Reviewer: If you want to add a note it would be better to use the note formatting
```suggestion
> **Note**: the script has several limitations:
```

>   - It does not support protos with templating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - It does not support procedural PROTOs.
```

>   - It requires the protos/worlds to be well formated.
>   - It does not convert the parameters of the protos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - It requires the PROTOs/worlds to be well formatted.
  - It does not convert the parameters of the PROTOs.
```
